# juse
Java Unibot Simulation Environment (J.U.S.E.)
@author Raffaele Grandi
Period: April 2008 - July 2011
Description: Java UniBot Simulation Environment (J.U.S.E.) was designed as a stand-alone simulator for differential wheeled mobile robots, self-made and completely based on Java technologies. The basic idea of J.U.S.E. was to create the simulation counterpart of the real robot Unibot, where users had the possibility to test algorithms on their computers before testing them on real robots. From the earliest versions of J.U.S.E., each simulated robot was designed as an agent, considered in the meaning of Multi Agents System terminology, with different layers of computation, from the logical to the physical one. The communication layer was implemented as a client-server node on which an “Ad Hoc on Demand Distance Vector (AODV)” algorithm operated. It was useful to automatically maintain the connection between mobile agents. That kind of structure is perfect for the deployability of the agent inside a real robot without any further changes. In the earliest versions of the simulator, environmental sensors were developed as bumper sensors while more recently they were implemented as infrared proximity
sensors. At the beginning J.U.S.E. was developed as a support to my master thesis but the simplicity of the environment and the java-based architecture was a good choice in order to adopt J.U.S.E. as an instrument in the courses of Robotics and Artificial
Intelligence and for many other thesis.
